so question is is what is an apache web
server an apache web server is an HTTP
server that presents websites to
visitors that come to your server so if
you want to deploy a website set for a
business or for your organization you
would most likely use apache in order to
do that there are other HTTP servers out
there such as iis or in jinks but apache
is the standard that most people use
whether they're on linux whether they're
on Windows or whether they're on Mac
Apache is the default that most people
go to because it's well-known it's very
reliable and it's free so if you're
going to be trying to deploy a website
generally you're going to be using
Apache now one thing to realize with
Apache is that all it is is an HTTP
server so if you install this on Linux
or you install it on to Windows or you
install it on to a Mac all it will allow
you to do is be able to present static
websites to visitors coming to your
server so if you you code out an HTML
website with no additional programming
languages other than something like
JavaScript you can use that with just an
Apache server so you know h1 title you
plug all of that in you can put that
onto an Apache server and you can
present that to visitors coming to your
site do realize if you need any database
services or if you need a dynamic
programming languages in order to make
your website work such as PHP or Ruby
something along those lines you will
have to install those additional server
services onto your server so most of the
time when people build a web server they
build a lamp server so a Linux Apache my
sequel PHP generally most of the time
people install my sequel and PHP in
addition to Apache but do realize that
you don't have to if you just simply
have a static website maybe with
specific information a very plain you
know general website you can simply use
Apache in order to present that to your
visitors so that's all Apache is and
that's why it matters